---
layout: post
title: "Breaking Addictions"
date: 2019-03-26 4:00:00 -0500s
categories:
---

Social media is a double-edged sword. On the positive side, it is a wonderful tool that allows us to connect with people anywhere on the planet. I can keep in touch with friends and family all over the country, keep track of current events, and learn countless new things every day. Marketers sell this vision of social media to us: it's a utility that connects humanity. However, all of these positive aspects come with less-discussed negative implications. Rather than spending time interacting with people face to face, I'm often content with sitting at home and "interacting" with others through a screen and keyboard. This connection, though useful sometimes, has proven detrimental for me in many parts of life. Every hour that I spend on social media scrolling mindlessly, I lose an hour furthering my career. I lose an hour working on interesting hobbies. I lose an hour meaningfully improving my life.

I made a post back in December about how I wanted to go on a month-long social media hiatus. It was a successful trial run! I spent more time with friends, felt more accomplished in my actions, and had enough time left over to truly decompress and think about my life. However, after the month was over, I gave myself a day of catching up on the videos and posts I had ignored. One day turned into a few days which turned into a week which turned into a complete and utter relapse.

According to the American Society of Addiction Medicine (ASAM) [https://www.asam.org/resources/definition-of-addiction](https://www.asam.org/resources/definition-of-addiction), "Addiction is characterized by inability to consistently abstain, impairment in behavioral control, craving, diminished recognition of significant problems with one’s behaviors and interpersonal relationships, and a dysfunctional emotional response. Like other chronic diseases, addiction often involves cycles of relapse and remission." This almost perfectly describes my relationship with social media. I find it difficult to put my phone down when there's always another 15 minutes of instant dopamine from scrolling to the next post. It's difficult to abstain from, I have little control over my constant craving to pick up my phone, and I spend more time scrolling than talking with others.

Granted, the rest of the definition given by the ASAM doesn't quite fit... "Without treatment or engagement in recovery activities, addiction is progressive and can result in disability or premature death." I wouldn't quite say that social media has made me disabled nor would I say it will lead me to a premature death... at least I hope not. But the point stands! Social media is highly addictive for me and it is difficult to drop.

So, I'm trying this social media hiatus once more with a slightly different approach. This time, I am adding a reward at the end. After one month of avoiding social media, I will reward myself with some item that I wouldn't ordinarily purchase impulsively (I'm currently leaning toward an electric guitar, a DAW, or a Nintendo Switch). Over the course of my life, the added value from spending time and money on my life goals will be worth the cost of the carrot on the stick. I would argue $250 every month would be worth the significantly improved quality of life from avoiding social media. Over the next few months, I'll see how well this approach works and report back.