---
layout: post
title: "Music: Fall 2018"
date: 2019-03-08 2:00:00 -0500s
categories:
---

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/videoseries?list=PLBLxt7wl4tIez9hStuZ-lZ_xBVC2M0dE1" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>

I attended the Troye Sivan concert in Milwaukee in October with my amazing boyfriend. Though I live closer to Chicago, the concert in Chicago did not have a General Admission section (i.e. all tickets were seated), so I opted to drive a bit further to Milwaukee. I have always found concerts with GA sections more exciting and energetic than seated concerts. The combination of jumping, screaming, and dancing all right in front of the stage makes it easier to let go and enjoy. Being surrounded by hundreds of other raving fans flips a switch in my brain that lets me break out of my generally reserved nature. Troye Sivan went on tour to promote his new "Bloom" album, and I found his new songs enjoyable! There's definitely part of me drawn to his music solely because I've had a crush on him since early high school, but I still think he makes some fun music!

Another musician I was super excited about this fall was ayokay. ayokay released a new album recently called "In the Shape of a Dream". It overlays smooth island music on top of bassy backdrops that meld together to put the listener in a dream-like state. This album is great if you're looking for smooth jams to put on while working on a project or just when you're laying in bed ready to fall asleep. Like all great music, most of the songs are about love :blue_heart: :purple_heart: :heart:. I was actually led to this album by one of its featured artists -- Jeremey Zucker -- who is worth checking out as well.

The final album that I fell in love with this fall was "Apricot Princess" by Rex Orange County. One of my high school friends came to visit and he put this album on. It caught my attention with a super upbeat and catchy intro song. Later that week when I first listened through the entire album on my own, there were some songs that almost brought me to tears. It's really an emotional journey that takes you down roads of love, family, and longing for home. What's perhaps even more amazing is that the artist is about my age. It's crazy to think that my peers are finally starting to make tangible impacts on the world. It really makes me want to go make something out of my life.

Hopefully there's a song or two in this playlist that you'll find enjoyable!
